The short flashes and not streaks,
[music]
they're associated with things that are
extremely flat and extremely reflective.
>> Wow.
>> Like mirrors. [music]
>> Like mirrors.
>> This is [music] from the Palomar
Observatory before we had satellites in
space.
How many of these transients [music] did
you find?
>> Our original sample is around uh 105,000
transients from just the northern
hemisphere.
Dr. Beatatrice Voriel holds a PhD in
astrophysics. [music]
She's won the L'Oreal UNESCO prize for
women in science. She's currently an
associate professor at Stockholm [music]
University where her research runs the
gambit from active galactic nuclei to
transient phenomena in the search for
intelligent life.
>> If I look at everything that I learned
in the last years, I I will be fair. I
don't think we are alone. I think we
have company.
In other words, Dr. Vrial is someone who
really knows her when it comes to
the night skies and cosmos.
>> My name is Beatatrice Varel and I'm a
very curious person.
>> And it's precisely these illustrious
mainstream astronomical accomplishments
which make her latest paradigm
shattering results all the more shocking
and threatening to the establishment.
>> Dr. Let me first say that your
reputation
>> actually first. Could you ask the
gentleman with the firearms to wait
outside?
>> Dr. V Royale has found over 100,000
light reflecting unidentified objects on
the plates of the Palomar Observatory,
the most prominent observatory in use in
the 1950s. The only thing is she
detected these objects before the first
satellite Sputnik ever orbited Earth.
You heard me right. A conventionally
renowned astronomer has detected over a
100,000 UFOs before humans ever put
anything in space. And the debunkers are
flailing in their attempts to take her
down. Do you feel like the world is
ready to accept this?
In this exclusive long- form interview,
we address it all. We stress test her
results and even speak to a PhD from
Vanderbilt, Dr. Steven Bruell, who's
followed up on Beatatric's study and
correlates these UFO appearances with
nuclear tests. [music]
The transients correlate not only with
nuclear testing, but also show a small
but statistically significant
correlation with UAP reports from the
general public. Whoa.
If you've seen our show or read the work
of the great Robert Hastings, you'll
know that the Nuclear UFO Connection is
widespread, ongoing, and global. We've
even interviewed a top presidential
adviser at the end of his life who
admitted to holding UFO material that
came from a nuclear detonation in the
Marshall Islands in late 1963.
>> Hler, that's amazing. But this is
unprecedented. We've never correlated
those anecdotal sightings with the
astronomical record. What's even more is
that all of this work has received peer
review in mainstream astronomical
journals. In other words, she has
finally caught the white whale in UFO
science, academic validation.
>> And then they can get their own
ontological shock. Why? Why should only
I have it?
So, strap yourselves in, leave the
Earth's atmosphere behind, and prepare
to never see the night sky the same way
again [music] as we welcome this week's
returning Swedish alchemist, the amazing
Dr. Beatatrice Voral.
Beatatrice Valale, thank you so much for
being here, a return guest on American
Alchemy. I couldn't be more excited to
have you because you had discovered some
amazing things the last time we spoke,
but this time you have discovered things
that I think are so onlogically shocking
and are hard to kind of compute for the
average person because they wholesale
change our worldview and our
understanding of the earth, its place in
the cosmos, objects surrounding the
earth. And so I'm just so grateful for
you. Uh thank you for for being here.
Thank you for for spending time with us
in Stockholm.
>> It's a pleasure and it's a pleasure to
have you here in Stockholm.
>> Walk me through the day that you saw
that there were maybe, you know, all
these transients, these objects that
were basically calling UFOs surrounding
the Earth. What what what happened that
day?
>> Um well, I've been working with
transients for a while. But I think a
lot of people know about this transient
work where where we have been looking
for like multiple transients in images.
Sometimes you can see multiple of them
appearing and vanishing within half an
hour.
>> What is what is a transient?
>> So imagine a light flash or something
that changes in the sky. You have all
these stars in the skies. You have
galaxies. But some things change their
luminosity and sometimes they change it
on a short time. And in our case, we saw
things that appeared and vanished within
half half an hour. And we had two such
examples that were statistically
significant.
>> One is uh five objects on a narrow band
and it's from the 27th of July 1952.
>> And then my colleague Enrique Solano in
Spain, he discovered another such really
beautiful example with three super
bright, beautiful stars is the most
beautiful example of all we have. This
one is from the 19th of July 1952. And
then my colleague Dave Alman who is the
manager media manager for Vasco. He
said, "Do you know what happens or what
happened on 19th of July 1952?" No, I
wasn't around.
>> So he introduced me to the Washington uh
flap.
>> In Washington, ghostlike [music] objects
dart across the radar screen at the CIA
traffic control center at National
Airport for several hours.
>> This was a national event. It was a It
was all over the press. It was in, you
know, newspapers saying white, you know,
saucers on the White House lawn. It
prompted a call between Truman and
Edward J. Rupelt, who was the head of
Blue Book at the time. And it was, you
had this Washington invasion or DC
flyover where there were saucers all
over DC at the time. And it was spec, it
was July of 1952, but it was
specifically two weekends. It was the
19th and 20th, and it was the 26th and
27th. So, I find that absolutely
remarkable. So there I started
understanding like there is something
more to these transients
>> and at the same time I I've been having
all this discussion for several years
with people who thinks no it's just
plate defects you're trying to see
systematics in plate defects.
>> Real quick just for the audience what is
a plate and why are other astronomers
saying that you're only seeing plate
defects when you're looking for these
flashes of light
>> in the old times in the 50s. H in order
to make a picture of the sky with a
telescope you used big [music] glass
plates big that were big and heavy. They
had an emulsion on top on on top of it
and then they tried to observe the sky
and they made a survey [music] observing
the sky like the Palomar Observatory for
example and Harvard they they took
images of the skies with these plates
and um these images they have been
[music] digitized
>> so even if they're somewhere in an
archive then you today can access the
digital images
>> and um it was u assumed assumed or
known. I don't anymore know if I should
use known or assumed that many of these
dots that could be there could be some
kind of emulsion defects.
>> And people thought, okay, so in order to
select a star or something like that,
people normally took uh two images and
only selected those that appeared on two
images. But if you do that, you're
missing a lot of short-lived phenomena
that might only be seen for a few
minutes
>> because then you miss all that. it's not
going to be in your samples and
astronomy is all about sample selection.
The way how you define your sample, you
need to to think through the criteria
very carefully when you start doing this
research. Yes. So when we have been
talking about this multiple transients
that people say, oh, you're probably
just running into plate defects that
just happen to coincidentally look like
stars.
>> And when you say emulsion,
>> what what does that mean?
>> And this chemistry you put on these
plates. M. So the chemistry you put on
the plates when the light shows through
it, you get almost like a stain or like
a record an increase.
>> Exactly. A bubble
>> of what was in the sky.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And they think Yeah.
Sorry. Yeah. You get if if you have bad
luck, you get a plate effect like a
bubble or something like that. But if
you have something uh real then you will
get a star.
>> Yes. And so you have these plates and
they they come from the Palomar
Observatory
>> those that I work with.
>> And was this a wellrespected observatory
at the time?
>> Yes. one of the greatest ones and Fritz
Wiki was there
>> and there were many very famous
astronomers that were there. So yeah, so
we are working with this stuff where
people have that people have been using
for u doing really great astronomy. Now
we're going back and looking at this
digitized images and of course I'm
having my discussion with people
thinking ah it's just plate defects and
then there's a simple way of testing it
actually that's much stronger. Well, one
of the tests we did were these
alignments where we still found things.
But there's a even cooler way how you
can test that. You can actually see uh
if you have uh the same number of
transients
uh when you look outside the earth's
shadow or when you look inside the
earth's shadow because all the time the
earth cast a shadow. It's like a cone
and the further you are from the earth
the narrower is this um shadow.
So my hypothesis was that there were um
that uh these transients came from solar
reflections at 42,164
kilometers from the earth or somewhere
there around. Um and one of the ways how
you can check it is to see are there
more transients inside where you know
the earth shadow is at a certain time or
is it like fewer transients.
And of course for every transient uh we
have the coordinate and we also have the
time of the observation. So you can
calculate is it inside earth shadow or
not.
>> And uh if it would be plate defects you
would have no deficit.
>> Yeah.
>> If it's 100% uh solar reflections you
will have zero transients there.
>> Yes.
>> And if you have that a part of them are
real and a part of them are plate
defects you will have a deficit. uh and
you can basically estimate how big
fraction of your objects that seem to be
authentic.
>> M
>> of course what do we do? We test this.
>> Yes,
>> because we have this code from a guy
called GYR. So he it's a public code and
then we have the transient sample from
my colleague at the Spanish virtual
observatory.
>> So it's quite easy to test. You just
insert the coordinates from the sample
into the code and you count things. And
guess what? you get a huge deficit.
>> Wow.
>> And that's when you start saying like
did I do something wrong?
>> Yeah.
>> And you start thinking did I calculate
the the area of a circle on the sky
correctly? And you start doing all kind
of things just to test did I screw up?
>> So and for the audience so you're
basically showing that the earth's
shadow would not obviously a solar
reflection wouldn't show up there.
Exactly. a real object, you know, if it
was in the the way of the sun, you would
get a solar reflection. A non-real
object, you wouldn't get anything.
Right. And so what you're showing is
that these are real solar reflections
because there is a deficit in the
Earth's shadow of these objects.
>> Exactly. Because inside the Earth's
shadow, if the sun doesn't reach Yeah.
you're not going to get the reflection.
>> While if you're outside Earth's shadow,
it's going to reflect sunlight. So
that's a remarkable finding because it
shows that these are real objects
because the idea that there are plate
defects that's not going to play
favorites ver you know as far as the
earth shadow or not earth shadow. It's
just going to be evenly distributed
throughout a plate defect is a plate
defect.
>> Exactly. And it's possible that many of
the transients we've been working with
are plate defects because we only see
one that there's a deficit of some of
one/irdow. Uh so yes maybe there are a
lot of plate defects in the samples but
you still have a 30% deficit or 30 35%
it still means that 30 to 35% of the
objects we are working with come from
solar reflections and not any solar
reflections because these flashes that
we see and these short flashes and not
streaks they're associated with things
that are extremely flat and extremely
reflective.
>> Wow.
>> Like mirrors and that makes it more fun.
>> Like mirrors. mirrors.
>> Interesting. Yeah.
>> Not something not not a stone, not a
rock,
>> right?
>> Not ice, not round flats.
>> This is from the Palomar Observatory
before we had satellites in space.
>> Yes.
>> So that's fascinating. And if you think
about it, plate defects again would be
even you're going to have some margin of
error due to plate defects, maybe like
you said 30 35%. But it's not going to
be only, you know, where the sun is.
That that that makes sense.
>> So even if you would have 80% of like uh
plate defects, you still would have a
substantial fraction of the objects that
seem to be real. And that's what counts.
I would be happy if it would be 1%. But
when you get like 30 to 35% and you say,
>> "Am I calculating it correctly?"
>> You almost hope for it.
At this point in the interview, you
might be wondering about the fact that
Beatatrice is looking at the most
prominent astronomical observatory in
use at the time. [music]
So why wasn't this discovered earlier?
And why haven't these findings [music]
been replicated? Well, a man who held
just about every clearance in the book
and ran the Harvard Observatory in the
1950s, who was also part of the Bureau
of Public Standards, basically compiling
a lot of the astronomical data known to
the public in the ' 50s and60s [music]
was a guy named Donald Menzel. Dr.
Donald Menzel came [music] out swinging
against UFOs. But thanks to Beatatrice
and others, we know the true story. He
was even caught by his understudy Dorit
Hofflight destroying astronomical plates
at the Harvard Observatory.
>> And he helped the uh US Air Force to
debunk the Washington 1952 flap.
>> Y
>> and two or three months after he
suddenly becomes the director of Harvard
Observatory and he destroys onethird of
the photographic place and [music] and
he doesn't ask, as I understand from the
record, he doesn't ask the astronomers
to select the place. No, he asked his
secretary to go and throw away uh
onethird of the plates. And there's a
woman Dory Tofflight that has been uh
like telling about the story in her
memoirs and kind of he started revenging
on her later too for as I understood it
for that she tried to protect some of
the plates. He also threw away a a
number of the log books that are keeping
the observations and what plates exist.
So you only have a handful of
observatories in use at the time and you
have a national security state headed up
by people like Don Menzel tightly
controlling the information disseminated
to the public. It's not beyond belief to
me then that a widespread coverup could
have occurred. So we've shown that these
aren't plate defects because plate
defects don't move intelligently around
based on the Earth's shadow. They also
don't move intelligently around based on
nuclear detonations occurring in the 40s
and 50s. And if you're wondering just
how ubiquitous the UFO nuclear
connection actually is, check out my
interview with the great journalist
Robert Hastings, author of the book UFOs
and Nukes, who's chronicled 167 Qcle
cleared nuclear base employees who have
blown the whistle on UFOs showing up all
over our nuclear installations. Roswell
was the site of the most nukes in the US
in 1947 at the time of the Roswell
crash. Unless you think this is an
American deep state SCOP, you can go as
far as Japan, where a town named Eno,
which is right next to the Fukushima
prefrure, has a mountain, Mount Seni,
where UFOs constantly show up. Many of
the town's people are obsessed with
UFOs. They have a museum on top of this
mountain dedicated to UFOs. Eno is
directly adjacent to the Fukushima
prefrure and their civilian nuclear
grid. In the 90s in Zimbabwe, over 60
school children all saw a UFO land and
an alien descend out of the craft and
telepathically speak to them. And where
is this school's location?
>> And you know, an aerial school that was
near a uranium uh mining site.
>> That is right. As far as I understand,
>> when we first started selling
merchandise at American
Alchemymerch.com, we had no idea how
complicated and annoying selling merch
could be. We talked to a dozen different
platforms and companies comparing
shipping tools, payment options, website
builders, and it all felt like way more
of a headache and complicated than it
should be. We decided on Shopify, and
within days, our store was up.
Everything was running cleanly in an
automated way so we could just focus on
the brand and the vision we had for it.
That's when it hit us. Ideas don't scale
on inspiration alone. They need a
structure, a container. Shopify provides
that structure. It quietly powers
millions of creators and brands, about
10% of all United States e-commerce.
From big names like Gym Shark and Mattel
to solo creators building from their
bedrooms, Shopify made it simple to
build a store that actually feels
authentic to us, which matters when your
brand lives in a niche like alternative
tech, UFOs, or fringe science. And when
you have a very clear brand vision, plus
their AI tools help write descriptions,
organize products, even clean up photos,
so we can focus on what matters and what
we care about. building the best custom
merch line possible with the coolest
designs like our UFO cowboy tea and the
[music] atomic age tee. Plus, Shopify
handles all of the unglamorous, more
painful stuff. Shipping, returns, email
[music] marketing, all in one clean
dashboard. It's like having a silent
partner who never sleeps. [music] Our
favorite part of the product is the
dashboard, which gives us complete
demographic information. We can see
where our orders come from, making it
easy to know who our most loyal,
consistent customers are around the
world. That's just one example, but
Shopify really makes your life easier.
Bring your next idea to life with
Shopify quietly handling everything
behind [music] it. Sign up for your $1
per month trial and start today at
shopify.com/jesse.
Again, that's shopify.com/jesse.j
ssse for a $1 a month trial. Again,
that's just $1 a month to try Shopify,
the state-of-the-art solution in
e-commerce.
>> So, this is amazing because you've
basically found pre-satellites in space
uh objects surrounding the Earth. How
many of these transients did you find?
>> Well, it depends on how one counts. Now,
our original sample is around uh 105,000
transients from just the northern
hemisphere, but we assume that it's only
one/ird of these that are uh relevant.
So we can count on 70,000 all over.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
however, I don't know how many of these
uh transients might be associated with
only one object or if it's like one
object could give several of them.
>> I just don't know at the moment. We have
to investigate this.
>> Yes. Because a transient is a flash of
light. Exactly.
>> And so it could be the same object
flashing traveling or whatever. And you
found this over what period of time?
>> It's over six years. It's seven. It's
like some 780 hours of u exposure time.
>> Okay.
>> So we Yeah, we need to do the
calculations correctly. I think it's
something like uh 1.1 transient per
square degree per hour.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Wow. So like almost like 15,000 per year
or something.
>> It's a fun number.
>> Yeah. What I didn't know is that there's
apparently since the early 1960s there
were something called uncorrelated
targets.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And people have been finding them in
hundreds per week or something like that
where again they see something only once
or a few times on a radar or with
optical sensors and then they they can't
track it. So it becomes an uncorrelated
target and they always reduced
>> from the background when people
calculate a number of objects in space
let's say space trash and um satellites
in space
>> how do you separate an uncorrelated
target from a satellite how do you know
because it's not orbiting like a
satellite
>> because they can't track it so they they
if I understand it correctly NASA and
those always remove it from the
background
>> okay
>> sorry they remove this background of
uncorrelated targets from the total uh
number of things that they see in order
to calculate the number of objects in
space. However, I think that they're uh
they don't do it themselves. It's done
by militaries and it's classified list.
So, it's kind of becoming a little bit
more fun. I'm trying to look into this
right now.
>> Yeah. So m maybe like uh you mentioned
recently like you know NASA's kind of
the more civilian space exploration
output obviously they do intelligence
work as well but maybe space force has
these targets these uncorrelated targets
and they remove them for NASA
>> I think that's what I heard from someone
on the inside yes that they don't do it
themselves is the space force that has
these lists these lists are classified
as also those earliest from the 1960s
because what I would like to uh is one
of these lists
>> coordinates and check if they vanish in
the shadow.
>> Totally. I mean because if they if they
didn't vanish they wouldn't just be
noise because it sound it sounds like
systematically people looking at space
are calling them uncorrelated targets.
You're basically it's like a oh they're
just it's noise in the data or
something. It's something to be filtered
out. But in fact you have other agencies
that are systematically tracking the
noise because it's not just noise. It's
these are objects maybe.
>> It's very interesting and I I learned
also that it's like they make up the
majority of the things that we see on
the sky today. But again, I didn't know
about it. So I'm wondering a little bit.
Are my transients similar to these
uncorrelated targets? Of course.
>> Yeah,
>> it's one of the things I'm wondering
about because that would be interesting.
>> That would be amazing because 15,000 a
year or 20 thou, you know, whatever
number that we come to is a lot. I mean,
the amount of satellites in space, like
I don't even know what we're at right
now, but I mean, obviously, Starlink is
dramatically increasing the amount in
the sky, but it's not a ton. And the
uncorrelated objects, just for the
audience, because we've jumped back and
forth between transients, which are
these light flashes that you were
detecting in these plates from the, you
know, 50 to 56 and uncorrelated objects.
Do we know that these are the same thing
or
I have no idea. I'm just spec like
speculating around this. I'm just
curious and trying to look into this
right now. These are just where my
thoughts are wandering.
>> But if you saw that there was a drop off
in these uncorrelated objects around the
Earth's shadow, you could show that
again they're physical objects and maybe
if we could show that they were the same
amount as what you found in the the
plates from, you know, the ' 50s, maybe
you'd get, you know, some sort of match.
But
>> would love to see that like especially
these uncorrelated targets if they come
from optical sensors it would be super
interesting to see if they vanish in the
earth shadow. It would also support not
only that they're physical but that they
are artificial.
As it turns out these uncorrelated
targets [music] are a gateway to a much
deeper rabbit hole stretching all the
way back to the dawn of the space race.
Our story begins in 1953,
4 years before Sputnik. Enter Major
Donald Kho, a retired Marine Corps naval
aviator and one of the earliest public
advocates for UFO disclosure. Kho states
something astonishing that the Air Force
was tracking two unknown artificial
satellites 400 and 600 m up in low Earth
orbit. The timing here was likely not a
coincidence. That same year, a very
unusual [music] project started at White
Sands Missile Range, a military-funded
initiative to track small natural
satellites. Think asteroids captured in
orbit. Two remarkable scientists were in
charge. First up is meteorite expert Dr.
Lincoln Leaz. Before joining this
special search for many moons around
Earth, Dr. Leaz headed up Project
Twinkle, an Air Force investigation into
unexplained green fireballs showing up
across American nuclear sites documented
at places like Los Alamos and Hollowman
Air Force Base. Leaz arrived at the
conclusion that these green fireballs
were not a known natural phenomenon and
they seemed to propel themselves
intelligently. Second on the project, we
have Clyde Tomba. Yes, that Clyde
Tombop, the man who discovered Pluto,
the man whose ashes are now speeding
towards interstellar space inside the
most expensive urn ever built, NASA's
New Horizon spacecraft. Until the day he
died, Tomba remained steadfast in his
conviction that some UFOs could
represent visiting alien spacecraft. So,
one has to wonder, given wild rumors
from credible sources and the cast of
characters involved, what exactly did
they actually find? On August 23rd,
1954, Aviation Week and Space Technology
published a statement from Leaz, one
which begged way more questions than it
answered. Leaz confirmed that there were
indeed two unknown objects, but
simultaneously he claimed that the two
unknown objects were fully identified
natural asteroids caught in Earth's
gravitational grasp. He might have been
doing this to dispel American domestic
panic that this could have been Soviet
tech. But if you read between the lines,
there's a lot that just doesn't add up.
Firstly, these observations directly
corroborate Kho's story. White Sands
Missile Range actually was tracking two
unidentified objects in low Earth orbit,
but it also contradicts just about
everything else we know about the
historic and scientific record. These
two quote unquote natural satellites
never show up again in any of the
literature on asteroids and near-Earth
objects. Given that the moon is regarded
as the Earth's only permanent natural
satellite, these two mini moons should
have been a major astrophysical
discovery. I'm talking national news
major. Yet, we never heard about these
two objects again. Perhaps strangest of
all, in the official Near-Earth
Satellite Project's final report, these
two objects aren't even mentioned. Not
only that, but the report concludes that
there are no natural satellites orbiting
the Earth. But if that was true, if
there were really no natural satellites,
then what the hell were these two
unknowns?
Perhaps most remarkably, the most
important US government documents
surrounding UFOs from exactly when the
Palmar Observatory was making these
observations in the early 50s [music]
quite literally refers to objects with
metallic and light reflecting surfaces
that were flat on the bottom. So, the
Air Force and CIA documents at the time
describe objects that exactly sound like
the mirrorlike features Beatatric's data
implies. These documents include the
1947 Twining [music] memo, the 1948
Project Sign analysis, and the CIA's
analysis of the 1952 [music]
DC UFO flyover, along with Blue Book
lead Captain Edward J. Rupelt's analysis
and more. UFOs are consistently
described as light reflecting, luminous,
shiny, metallic objects. Characteristics
that would likely show up as light
transients on astronomical plates like
the Palomar Observatories.
Have you tried to corroborate your
findings from the Palomar Observatory?
Because people maybe forever will try to
say it's plate defects even though plate
defects aren't going to be biased
towards you know what's not in the
earth's shadow and where the sun is
hitting. That doesn't make any sense.
>> Unless they are intelligent plates
>> unless they're int then you're
>> they move around on the plate just to
avoid a shadow.
>> Yeah. So they're the real conspiracy
theorists. The plate defects people are
you know they're into Yeah. Yeah.
Intelligent plate defects.
>> Exactly. Um, have you tried to look at
other observatory data, other plates
from the 50s to cross reference that
data against the Palomar?
>> I really want to do it. It's a big
project because every time you um try to
let's say uh look at a new place
collection, it's a big extraction like
the whole process to look through the
place even the digital ones. It's a it's
it's a project for maybe two years or
so. So I hope I will get maybe a
post-doctoral uh researcher to help to
do this.
>> A lot of people watching this might be
asking, "Oh, it's convenient that
Beatatric who was interested in UFOs is
finding, you know, UFOs." Um, how would
you respond to to those people? Because
the way you're describing it to me, it's
kind of undeniable from a first
principles viewpoint that this is worthy
of investigation and it's very clear.
But
>> it's called a scientific method. You
have a hypothesis. When you build the
LHC to looks for the when they built the
LHC to look for the H boson, they also
have a hypothesis in the beginning. When
they look for a particular particle,
they know what they are looking for. Is
it there or not? Yes,
>> it's a scientific method. Why should
UFOs or alien life be an exclusion? I
mean,
>> that's a that's a beautiful way to put
it. The scientific method involves the
interplay between hypotheses and
testing. And if you can't even have the
hypothesis that there could be, you
know, other life or other objects that
we don't detect out there, you're not
going to obviously find it because it's
>> Yeah. So if you go very generally and
you look for UFOs and you start looking
uh let's I mean I've seen some
astronomers suggesting that you should
um just look without any hypothesis and
do like classify things like you're
classifying butterflies. I think you're
not going to find anything.
>> Well obviously
>> because because you have no hypothesis
you don't target your experiment.
>> Yes. and you are going to invest years
into that and you might have a great
classific like great catalog of things
but I'm not interested in the catalog.
>> Yes,
>> I want to ask the question. I want to
design the experiment. Of course, you're
going to have a lot of pitfalls, things
that can go wrong. It's all trial and
error. We're learning continuously.
>> But this is what I want to do. I want to
test the question. I want to do the
experiment and I want to analyze the
data and see what is the outcome.
>> And it's a great example you used. You
said LHC which is the Large Hydron
Collider which is CERN this big particle
accelerator. The Higsfield I believe was
predicted in the 70s and they actually
discovered it much later obviously with
the Large Hydron Collider. So it's a
perfect example of you need to be open
or knowledgeable about the thing you're
looking for before you find it. It's not
just science is not like uh remove your
brain and you're just like an instrument
or a sensor. you have to target your
sensor, you know, against something. And
so that's what you're doing. And here's
where I think things get even more
exciting for people like me who have
been into UFOs for a very long time and
have long known about this connection
between UFOs and nuclear detonations. I
mean, it's a ubiquitous phenomena.
There's a great book by a journalist
named Robert Hastings called UFOs and
nukes and it documents
the global widespread phenomena of UFOs
showing up around nuclear installations,
nuclear civilian energy grids and
nuclear weapons facilities. You have 167
Qcle cleared missilebased security
personnel, radar operators, guys that
work at these these bases who are
basically hired to protect the crown
jewels of defense. and they have to
report if they're taking, you know,
Tylenol or ibuprofen, like they
literally have to be the picture of
mental health and they all say they see
UFOs, saucers, tic tacs. And so you
found that there might actually be a
connection between nuclear and UFOs in
space.
>> Uh so my colleague Steven Brule, he has
been leading a study. I'm co-author on
this paper. Uh so he has used the sample
from the Spanish virtual observatory,
the same sample that we use for the
Umbra test, exactly the same thing. and
he has tested a hypothesis of that
there's a correlation in time between
our transients and nuclear bomb tests
and he finds a correlation. It's weak
but it's there and is statistically
significant. He also finds a correlation
between UFOs and nukes and between UFOs
and transients and all of them are
statistically significant. So you have
this triad UFOs, nukes and transients.
>> Wow. And is it specifically nuclear
detonations?
>> Yes.
>> So it's the timing of nuclear
detonations.
>> Yes. Within a day you see this uh
increase in transients.
>> As you know on American Alchemy we cover
a lot of technology that goes beyond
human limits. This is about technology
that helps the body catch up and feel
good. I'm talking about the I restore
LED face mask, a red light therapy
system that uses clinical grade
wavelengths to boost skin cell energy
production. The same exact principle
used in the top recovery clinics and bio
optimization labs in the world. I've
been using it most nights, 10 minutes
while I'm reading, prepping for a show,
or decompressing. It's completely
hands-free, comfortable, and engineered
to deliver consistent light intensity
across the face, not that uneven scatter
most cheaper masks use. It feels like
your face is taking a warm bath. What
it's doing is called photobiomodulation,
stimulating mitochondria to repair
tissue, reduce inflammation, and improve
circulation. You [music] actually feel
the calm and rejuvenation after a
session. I've tested a few of these.
This one really stands out for the build
quality. It feels like it was built in a
high precision [music] lab, and it's not
just a cheap beauty gadget. So, if
you're into real evidence-based recovery
[music] tech, this belongs in your
setup. Head to ires restore.com and use
code jesse25 [music] for an exclusive
discount. Again, irrestore.com
code jesse25.
Red light therapy has really been a
gamecher for me. So, I hope you love it.
Originally, I trained as a clinical
psychologist, but I quickly moved into
doing biomed research. So as part of
getting a PhD I got training in research
design uh statistics and have practiced
that you know the research skills in
statistics for many years. I approached
Beatatrice via email and I said, you
know, what do you think of trying to
explore this further and she was nice
enough to uh agree to do a Zoom meeting
and we started talking about it and she
became very excited about the
possibility of systematically looking at
this which she had not really thought
about doing before. and we kind of came
up with a plan for how to do it and over
the course of the past year compiled
this enormous database with uh 2,700
days in it and for each day we recorded
was there a nuclear test that day? There
were like 134 over that period of time.
Was there a transient that uh day and
there were transients were only seen on
about uh 300 days out of those 2,700.
And then we looked is there a
relationship between those and a
relationship with UAP sightings in the
old center for UFO studies UFO database
which covers that period of time. And uh
you know I was shocked. We got a really
interesting finding that was highly
significant statistically
and uh I doublech checked it, triple
checked it and then reached out to
Beatatric. She was very excited and we
immediately started writing it up for a
paper uh which was actually just
accepted this week at a journal called
scientific reports.
>> That's amazing. Congratulations. So um
how strong is the correlation that you
found between the transients and nuclear
tests?
>> Let me put that two ways. So
statistically uh it there is an 8 and
1,000 chance that this is an error which
is means it's pretty unlikely that's an
error. Uh, and then the other way to
look at it is in terms of percentages.
So out of those 2,700 days, if there's
no nuclear test, there's a transient on
11% of those days. But if there's been a
a nuclear test the day before, then it's
uh almost 19% of those days have a
transient. So that 11 versus 19 is about
a 68% increase in risk for a transient
if you've had a nuclear test. And so
when you're documenting all these
nuclear tests, these are tests
presumably at the Nevada test site which
turned into Area 51, maybe the Marshall
Islands are like those sorts of nuclear
tests and then you know maybe whatever
Russia was doing with the Zarbomb in
Kazakhstan, that sort of thing.
>> Yes, [laughter]
that is all true. It's Kazakhstan,
there's some British tests in Australia
and then the US tests in New Mexico and
in the Pacific.
>> That's right. There's Wumera test range
which um the head of the nuclear
division actually in Australia the joint
intelligence organization was a guy
named Harry Turner and he was obsessed
with UFOs and so I think it's probably
not a coincidence that he was overseeing
a lot of those nuclear nuclear tests. Um
but uh yeah that's fascinating. Is there
any way to geoence uh the transients uh
to maybe correlate it even more tightly?
I think in principle there is the
possibility of doing uh kind of looking
at general directions because all of
these that we've looked at so far were
taken from California at the Palomar
Mount Palomar Observatory. Um, there are
plates from that same era that are taken
at other observatories like the Vatican
Observatory. And if we could get access
to digitized plates from some of these
other locations,
um, I would think we'd be some ability
to kind of triangulate uh on the on
those days when you get a transient that
coincides with the nuclear test and may
be able to identify uh roughly what
direction that was in. So, right now, we
haven't been able to do that, though.
This this would be a really big deal, I
think, if uh you know the entire
consensus sort of accepted it because
already you have people like Robert
Hastings documenting
160 plus qcle cleared ICBM security
personnel, radar operators, guys at
nuclear bases with no incentive to lie,
no histrionic streak in their
personalities. Often they're tested
actually uh for being sound of mind.
They're on what's called the PRP,
personal reliability program. U they
have to be inherently, you know, kind of
credible witnesses, and they're all
seeing UFOs. And what your study does is
it almost implies possibly that these
are coming from from space. They're not
just showing up, you know, locally at
the Air Force base.
>> Yeah. So, here's the pieces of
information that I like to point out
when I'm talking to people about this.
And I have to say a few years ago I
would think I was crazy for saying this
but these are just statistical facts. So
Beatatric has shown that these
transients the number of transients
drops dramatically when they are in an
area where the earth's shadow would be.
So that indicates that they are
reflective objects in orbit. They're not
plate defects. Um, our findings indicate
that these things were in the sky the
day after a nuclear test and they
weren't there the day before. So somehow
based on a nuclear test going off within
24 hours you have these objects whatever
they are appearing in geocynchronous
orbit. Now who is behind that? you know,
where where did these come from? And how
can they be so close that in 24 hours
they're they're able to be here and I
don't know the answer to that, but it
really is thoughtprovoking to me in an
existential way.
>> Absolutely. Are there any kind of first
order debunks that you've thought of
when it applies to your findings? So
like the first order debunk with
Beatatrice would be that uh these are
plate defects. And I think she answered
that pretty substantially with, you
know, unless the plate defects are
intelligently shifting themselves based
on, you know, light patterns, that
doesn't really make sense, right? So, do
you have like a a first order debunk
that you've thought of or addressed or
plan to address in the future?
>> Yeah. So, the things that are, and this
is all pretty obvious, but uh the
transients were identified using an
automated system. It's not true AI, but
it was an automated uh process conducted
by a computer.
And I know for a fact that some of those
are errors because I've I've gone
through at this point probably a hundred
of these transients manually, which is a
lot of work, but you can compare and see
why the computer thought it was a
transient. And there are some things
that are errors in there. Um, so that is
always a concern, but the thing is I
Like for example with the nuclear tests,
I looked at the transients that were
seen this the day after a nuclear test.
And for each of those dates that
happened, I have manually confirmed that
there was an actual real obvious
transient, at least one of them on that
day. And that gave me more confidence
that this isn't some weird error, some
random pattern that we've capitalized
on. So I I know there's real transients
from these days when the nuclear tests
happened, but the debunk of it is is
something local to the observatory,
right? Uh and what's interesting is the
transients correlate not only with
nuclear testing but also show a small
but statistically significant
correlation with UAP reports from the
general public.
>> Whoa. So on on a day when there is a a
nuclear test or see day after a nuclear
test and there are UAP sightings, you
get a much higher risk of a transient.
So they all kind of are like a triangle.
They're all together as one thing. And
that's fascinating to me. And you can't
explain that by anything that was local
to the observatory or the film. Those
associations wouldn't be there if it was
plate defects or radiation effects. If
it was a the bomb casing, just let's say
some bit of it survived, it's not going
to sit in one place in the sky for 24
hours to be seen as a transient
afterwards. So just none of the things I
would think of make any sense. And uh
you know as a psychologist most of the
research I do has a lot of error in it
because you're basing it on what people
tell you. And there's error in this data
set but it doesn't undo the fact that
there is a real signal there that is
clearly detectable and is actually quite
large when it comes to the nuclear
testing association. Well, also if
you're doing kind of pointed error
correction on the days that these, you
know, transients seem to show up, then
you're actually saying that 68% more
likely, you know, transients nuclear is
a baseline statistic and it's probably
higher if there are errors in the entire
data set and they're probably more
transients than, you know, we think.
>> Yeah. Same thing with the UAP sightings.
a lot of error those a lot of those are
prosaic things that just there was no
ability to you know research them. So
our plan hopefully is to use AI to try
to clean the transient data. Uh you know
train train the II AI to tell the
difference between a bad plate or dust
or a streak on the plate uh and a real
transient. And that what you just said
is true that if we do that successfully
we're going to get rid of the error and
end up with more signal and that should
increase the associations we see. Now,
and can I I want to mention one thing
too, and this is just kind of an odd
fact that I find interesting is when we
look at the data set, uh the last time
we saw a correspondence between a
nuclear test and a uh transient was
March 17th, 1956.
Okay. Now our study goes on for an
entire year after that and there are an
additional 38 nuclear tests over the
course of that year. Not a single time
is a transient associated with a nuclear
test at that point. So it was like,
well, what happened suddenly in 1956
and uh I was reading an article that a
guy named Larry Hancock with the SCU did
uh where they were looking at sightings
of UAP at nuclear facilities like
nuclear production facilities, nuclear
plants, things like that. And what they
found was high levels of activity from
1949 until 1953. And then it just
stopped. Even though more facilities
came online, suddenly they weren't
seeing UAP anymore. And it just got me
thinking. It almost looks like whatever
it is was showing an intelligent
interest in all things nuclear up until
between 53 and 56 and then suddenly
wasn't anymore, at least for a while.
That was kind of odd to think about. I
don't know what that means, but that was
that was intriguing.
Yeah, I'm trying to think what happened
in 56 or 57. I mean that's when NIKAP
formed which was the first civilian UFO
research program. That's when the
international geoysical year happened
where Antarctica became a no-fly zone
and a bunch of scientists, you know,
internationally met together to discuss
things of this nature. So maybe maybe
there's something around that. I believe
that was 56 57 um
>> maybe
>> but I don't know.
>> Yeah. And if these if these are we
always have to consider the possibility
that there's some very odd form of
plasma life you know I don't know what
that would be but some organism that may
give the appearance of this that can
hover in the sky and appear like a
transient and might be interested in
nuclear testing. But it is hard to
conceive of any kind of organism that
would be able to do what these things
seem to do.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, how many
transients are we talking about total in
this data set?
>> It is surprisingly large keeping in mind
the error, but there are over 107,000
over that uh what is it 8-year period.
>> Okay. Wow. It's remarkable. So, like a
little over 12,000 a year.
>> Yeah. So, if we think though that 90% of
these are error, let's just be
conservative, we've still got over
10,000 things that were in orbit
reflective prior to the first satellite
that seem to be interested in nuclear
tests in some way.
>> Do you have a sense of the error rate?
Because if the error rate is 10 to 20%,
I'd be I'd say far more confident in
your study. If it's like 90%, I might be
a little more okay, let's let's do the
error correction. You know,
>> I think the best way to think about that
is something that Beatatric has talked
about, which is when she looks at the
transients and where they are and
calculates which transients are in
sunlight and which are in shadow.
When you look at the data that way, in
the shadow, the number of transients
drops by about 30%. Right? So that kind
of presents the lower limit for error
would be maybe about you know 30 30% of
these being real transients 70% error. I
don't think it's actually that high just
having manually inspected these
>> but it would make sense that you'd get
more transients in the light than in the
shadow side. Right.
>> If they're in orbit.
>> Yep. So okay. So I see what you're
saying. So like up to 30% but even that
like you'd expect some you'd expect the
you expect some delta between those two.
So it's really maybe up to 25% or
something. I don't know what the right
mental model is.
>> There's no way for us to tell at this
point exactly.
>> Yeah. It sounds like as a the best way
to corroborate this just get as many
observatories like their data and kind
of cross crossch check all of them.
Right.
>> Yes. So if anybody out there has access
to digitized plates from places beyond
Palomar, please talk to us because I
think there's some very interesting
things we could do with that.
>> And one more thing that I like about
this result is that again it disagrees
with the plate defects unless they are
intelligent.
>> Yes. Exactly. If there's any sort of
correlation between nuclear and UFOs,
it's like so
>> even if we
>> Yeah. Yeah. So the emulsion issues are
somehow biased towards you know nuclear
detonations like that that all of a
sudden becomes much crazier as a null
hypothesis than just admitting that
there are these unidentified objects.
>> Yeah. People could of course say oh it's
just cosmic rays then or it's something
you know it's some high energy particle
but you're not you're also having a
correlation with UFOs and plus
>> if it would be cosmic ray particles they
wouldn't vanish in the in the earth's
shadow. No, they wouldn't also
>> at 42,000. So
>> they wouldn't vanish in the earth's
shadow. They also wouldn't be
systematically tracked by, you know,
maybe other military organizations,
you know, while civilian facing
organizations are sort of, you know, uh,
systematically removing them. So is this
data that you received from these plates
from the Palomar Observatory, is that
used in other serious scientific
investigations? Do other astronomers
look at that data? They are used by lots
of astronomers.
>> So if there are systematic plate defects
in what you're seeing, then this would
discount any study online that involves
these Palomar this Palomar observatory,
this this Palomar data and you're saying
that it's used by a lot of serious
astronomers. But what is usually done
and always has been historically done is
that people only use the images that um
let's say the object that can be found
on multiple images and then you get rid
of all the transients and the plate
defects.
>> Okay. Are are there other examples of
plate defects causing this number of
transients?
>> Not that I know.
>> Okay. So you've never heard of an
example like that?
>> No.
But these are these intelligent plate
defects are correlating with UFO events
with nuclear
um bomb tests. They are also hiding in
the Earth's shadow and they're sometimes
being aligned. They are remarkable.
>> Yeah, that's a pretty remarkable set of
plate defects.
[music]
>> [music]
>> In 1961, legendary astronomer Frank
Drake [music] started Project Osma, the
first ever organized search for
interstellar radio signals.
Drake scred together an antenna and dish
using scrapped radar parts from World
War II and pointed the whole apparatus
skywards in hopes of intercepting an
alien transmission.
In doing so, he initiated the largest
scale search for intelligent life our
astronomical community has ever engaged
in.
SETI or the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence had begun its 70 plus year
life. Outside of a few unresolvable
blips like the famous WOW signal
discovered by Jerry Aean at Ohio State,
no alien radio signals have ever been
detected in a repeatable consistent way.
Nonetheless, the search is still in its
infancy. One study literally calculated
that the volume of the galaxy that SEI
has scanned so far is like comparing the
volume of a hot tub of water to all of
the Earth's oceans and asking where are
all of the fish.
Even back in the early 60s at the start
of SETI, some of its scientists were
already exploring radical alternative
possibilities, even ones that went far
beyond basic radio signals.
One such outside the box thinker was
electrical engineer Ronald Bracewell and
his concept of a communicating probe.
Let's say you're trying to have a phone
call with alien broadcasters in epsilon
Bes some 203 lighty years away. [music]
You send a message, hey, what's up? 406
years after you sent the original
message comes the response. Nothing
[music] much. How about you? The point
is it would take 406 years just to
exchange those two sentences. [music]
Interstellar radio beacons don't exactly
make for engaging real-time
conversation. The speed of light is the
fastest thing we know, but it's also
painfully slow. Here's where Bracewell
saw an intriguing concept. Instead of
waiting around for radio signals to
cross interstellar distances, why not
send a physical robotic probe to the
star system of interest? Even if you
couldn't have a real-time conversation
with someone from another star, you
could upload an automated messaging
system or even eventually your mind into
an interstellar spacecraft which could
then upon arriving in orbit of the
destination [music] planet after eons in
the void initiate a realtime
conversation with the local life forms.
But what would the first message be? How
would one even go about starting such an
interecies dialogue? Bracewell's idea
was simple. You'd intercept whatever
radio transmissions the locals were
already sending out and then send those
radio transmissions back to them.
Bracewell took his speculation one step
further by considering that such a probe
may already be lurking somewhere in the
dark recesses of our solar system,
waiting to reach out at any moment.
One may recall a relevant scene in Carl
Sean's classic novel Contact, [music]
which follows SETI astronomer Ellie
Arowway as she intercepts a genuine
extraterrestrial signal sent from aliens
in the Vegas star system.
In a wild plot twist, [music] the
initial contents of the message come as
some shock. Hitler's speech at the 1936
Olympics was Earth's [music] first ever
television broadcast to break through
the ionosphere and reach space.
So in the novel, Hitler is also the
first representative of humanity the
Vegas [music] civilization sees. Not
exactly a good first look.
In a manner just like Bracewell's
concept, the Veagan aliens decide to
respond by bouncing Hitler's speech back
to its initial source, encoding
instructions inside of it to build an
interstellar wormhole device.
They're under control. Do you read me?
>> It's worth remembering that the solar
system is a very big place. It's also a
very ancient [music] place. Given the
vastness of space and time in our solar
system alone, where would any such a
probe park itself? The Earth Moon
Lrangee points would be the ideal
choice.
Think of Lrangee points as pockets of
stability where gravity, rotation, and
orbital motion all balance out, and
objects [music] within these pockets
stay still. If our solar system truly is
a wash in alien time capsules and
artifacts, they'd accumulate in Lrangee
points like a grand celestial treasure
chest for spacebound archaeologists.
[music] If you wanted to send a probe to
monitor our planet for millions or even
billions of years, the Lrangee points
are a great strategy for playing such an
observational long game.
Okay, but Jesse, isn't this episode
supposed to be all about hard data? Why
all the sci-fi speculation? Well, it so
happens there's a long welldocumented
unexplained radio phenomenon that eerily
pattern matches to many of these ideas
and predictions. I'm talking about long
delay echoes or LDEs. The story begins
back in 1927.
Norwegian shortwave radio operators
began to notice something odd.
Shortwave radio naturally travels around
the world and makes its way back to its
source, [music]
usually creating an echo 17th of a
second after the initial signal. This is
completely normal and expected. 17th of
a second is how long it takes to travel
around the entire Earth's circumference
at the speed of light. Radio waves, of
course, travel at the speed of light,
but for some transmissions, [music] a
ghostly echo would follow.
sometimes up to 30 seconds later. Much
too late to be a normal shortwave radio
echo. The radio operators who first
noticed this phenomenon were completely
[music] baffled. Norwegian physicist
Carl Stormer quickly got to work trying
to explain these mysterious echoes. To
this day, a definitive answer remains
elusive.
A vast majority of LDEs are likely
caused by radio waves bouncing through
plasma in Earth's ionosphere.
A few are more mysterious, perhaps even
echoing from the Earth Moon Lrangee
points. Some of the longer delay times
match the travel time to these Lrangee
points. [music]
And one study even found a statistically
significant increase in LDEs when the
Earth Moon L5 Lrangee point was above
the horizon. Just consider for a moment
how closely long delay echoes resemble
Bracewell's concept for interstellar
communication. Taking [music] local
transmissions and bouncing them back.
This coupled with a possible origin in
Earth moon lrangee points paints a
picture eerily similar to the long
hypothesized notions of what contact
could look like.
Could some of these echoing Bracewell
probes be what Beatatrice has detected
on the Palomar plates.
When you spend time with other
credentialed astronomers,
after rounds of them questioning you on
possible plate defects, them doing
mathematical calculations,
is anybody still hold out as skeptical
after spending weeks plus with you and
diving into the data?
>> I mean, the only one uh I can comment
about now is my referee.
>> Okay. And I think he send he or she is
sending back comments that are kind of
constructive asking for more tests and I
think people are always going to be
skeptical. There is like
>> when you say your your ref your referee
who is what does that mean?
>> So uh we're working through the revision
of the paper and it's undergoing like
review process which means you're
getting back a lot of questions where
they are questioning like your methods
etc.
And I think this process is very
important because it helps you to test
uh your method and it also gives you
confidence about the method when results
stay robust
and in general when I interact with
astronomers I think the first reaction
is like it's you know it can't be well
it's just my first reaction as well like
it can't be but you if you see it then
it's there
and I suspect that scientists are going
to be slower with accepting
certain results. I think the onlogical
shock among scientists is going to be
more brutal than among
um the general population.
>> Yeah.
>> Because we are very self-confident about
that we are the smartest uh
>> for sure
>> in the universe.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So,
>> are you trying to get this published in
a like a prestigious academic journal?
>> We're trying the traditional way through
peer review. is difficult because
there's it's of course it's a touchy
topic it's touchy results
>> and u there's going to be a lot of
skepticism but the way how I'm seeing it
is that we might not be able to convert
anyone at the moment but we can make our
data publicly available
>> so that anyone can go there and they
will have the access to the code as well
yeah
>> and then they can get their own
ontological shock why why should only I
have it
>> that's the question
>> why did you decide decide to go public
before getting this published uh via
peer review.
>> Um let's say like this. I know there's
going to be a lot of pressure on me. I
already have experienced it from people
that are trying to like save me by
asking me not to talk about it or you
know um
>> Oh, that's so weird.
>> It it has been a really unpleasant
process in some ways.
>> Why would they be saving you? Yeah,
because they think they save me by they
think okay if if you go out with this
there's going to be this and that and
all these horrible things are going to
happen to you etc etc and I know that
it's going to be tough with the pressure
and I thought it's more fair to put out
the results even the preprint early on
so that people can see this is where my
thoughts are at right now because then
they might also see how things develop
>> what happens what happens to the
results? Have they changed? Um,
it might also be a safer way when it
comes to pressure because if you don't
put it out and it leaks out instead that
a lot of people know about it, but they
are still not official, there's a bigger
risk that someone will come and try to
really stop me already. Now, people have
been kind of some of them have been a
little bit unpleasant to deal with. Have
you been approached by aerospace or
military or people with intelligence
backgrounds?
>> I have been approached by some people I
suspect have it.
>> Okay.
>> And that have been a little bit scary to
talk to.
>> Okay.
>> Um I mean if after that the result was
out. Uh I have also been approached by
very very nice people with uh that kind
of background who have been instead of
supportive.
>> Yes. And I appreciate that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> For me, it's important to like meet
people who are supportive.
>> There are good and bad people
everywhere. But you've It is It is to me
it's interesting that academia is trying
to throw the kitchen sink of skepticism
and they don't know what to think about
it and you know, God, God willing, you
get this published, you know, in this
academic.
>> It's been really scary. It's been a
really scary especially like with people
who are some of the people who I thought
were my friends and and then they come
back and they comment something and they
try to push you down maximum and you
say, "Hey, we [clears throat] shared so
much and we talk so much and I've been
so vulnerable with this person and then
they
>> try to stop you from making an interview
or talk about your work or something
like that." And that's where I just why
is this why is this happening? It's a
scary result. I understand.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a super scary result, but
>> I think it's an exciting result. It's
that [laughter] scary.
>> Well, it's exciting and scary, but it
still has to be
>> I mean, it has to be out there. And if
it turns out that it was some mistake in
the calculation later, fine.
>> Okay, then it happens. happens. We
are all humans. I'm also human and I'm
also learning and all the stuff. But
>> the ideas will be out. The methods we
develop will be out. Someone else who
might have better methods than me might
use the same ideas for the earth shadow
alignments presutnik plates combine them
and maybe we'll find really great
support for what we see.
>> The value of any scientific endeavor is
how uh against the updating of the
consensus it is. So if you have
something that's totally not correlated
from what you know most astronomers
think that's the most valuable thing
that you could ever look into. And so
the idea that you shouldn't look into
that is to me insane. And it's uh people
who want to defend basically the
establishment and the status quo. And
you know it's crazy how we replay the
same cycles over again but you know
Galileo
you're like a modern Galileo or
something. So l literally in some ways
because you're looking at you know it's
historical data but it's through a
telescope.
My hope is that the second if we get it
published and we will make these data
sets publicly available and people can
simply go in and check it for
themselves.
>> Yeah, I love that.
>> And they can reply through by writing a
paper, right? Not by doing some I don't
know ju just complaining to me they can
write a paper.
>> So you're open sourcing this for
everybody to be able to come to the same
conclusion.
>> I want people to go in and do this
themselves because I also want the
confirmation from the outside.
>> That's beautiful.
>> So that's how I'm thinking. I do think
it is telling perhaps that academia is
more like disinterested or skeptical and
they're saying don't ruin your
reputation and then you have aerospace,
military, those sorts of people are
coming to you and they're saying you
know they're expressing more interest
almost as if maybe they know a thing or
two about what you've already found
which has been my experience in in many
things that I've found when it comes to
exotic propulsion or UFOs.
is the military and aerospace are often
like there's something there, you know,
and then academia has no idea how to
even conceptualize what you're talking
about because they're in this kind of
ivory tower citadel which is kind of
separated from reality.
>> I think there's like I think there's a
certain amount of like mismatches one
realizes when when one is interacting
with academics. I had recently someone
telling me like, "Oh, every astronomer
wants to be the first one finding alien
life and you're doing a mistake. you're
doing the same mistake as and he read
some names and I'm just uh like yeah he
was upset over that I wrote the paper
and that I'm going like that I might
publish it and I'm just thinking like
I'm not out here to be the first or
something because if if this result is
correct then I'm far from the first.
There are thousands or 10 thousands of
people who know about it. There are
millions of UFO reports. There's nothing
about discovery here. Yes,
>> the only thing that would happen is that
there is scientific data confirming
something that is already known and
probably there's loads of results that
are classified related to this. There's
nothing related to discovery of being
first.
>> Well, this is how science moves forward.
If you read like Thomas Coon's like the
structure of scientific revolutions, he
says science moves forward more due to
politics than due to truth. And so if
you think about who was the first person
that hypothesized that we live in a
heliocentric universe that revolves
around the sun or solar system it was
universe at the time uh was uh uh
actually a guy named Aristarkus who is a
3 century Greek. Nobody believed him and
he was forgotten. And then in the 16th
century you have capernicus saying you
know we live in a heliocentric universe
and then you know obviously Galileo
helps kind of see that through through a
telescope. But the point is is that
people can be not listened to for the
longest amount of time and then
posteously be right and get no credit
and then it's the right time, it's the
right place and the discovery gets born.
But it's way more about the social
zeitgeist people being receptive and
ready than it is purely truth. I agree.
And also what about the you know
somebody at the Palomar Observatory or a
great example is I interviewed you last
time and you talked about Dorit
Hofflight who is um this astronomer who
ended up being a very wellrespected
astronomer herself but at the time she
was kind of an assistant professor I
think for uh Don Menzel at Harvard at
their observatory. and she talked about
Don Menzel, who is basically as
prominent in UFO lore as any astronomer,
astrophysicist there is, who was privy
to classified Navy and, you know, all
sorts of data, military data. Um, and he
was a big UFO debunker and he was caught
destroying astronomical plates from the
early 1950s.
>> It's amazing the whole thing. And it's
it it happened two months after the
Washington 1952 flap when by the way
that's when we have our interesting
transient cases too.
>> There you go.
>> And and then like connect that now the
story with Don Mansel.
>> Yeah.
>> To the fact that the Vera Rubin
telescope is going to remove a lot of
classified satellites and other objects.
>> Yeah.
>> And now also that we know that there's a
background of uncorrelated targets that
are classified also as far as as I
understand. I mean that seems like a
pattern to me and very worthy of
>> as far as I understand that's what I
understood from my source uh at NASA
that
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, no, we can uh we
can investigate and and
>> I would love to learn more about this
and check like exactly where it happens,
where do they remove them from which
calculation and I would like to learn
more about it. And can you find the list
from the early 1960s somewhere?
>> Yeah.
>> And not only like 10 of them, you want
something like thousands of them.
In light of Dr. [music] V Royale's
latest paradigm shifting results,
perhaps we should at least consider the
possibility of non-human technology. We
can also examine the testimony of the
legendary French godfather of ufology
himself, Dr. Jacques Valet. Young
Jacques was working as an astronomer at
the Paris Observatory as part of its
nent satellite tracking program. One
night on July 11th, 1961,
he and his colleagues noticed something
truly bizarre. An unidentified object
orbiting the Earth. The object was in
retrograde orbit going the opposite
direction to the Earth's rotation. To
unpack why this was so weird, we need a
bit of rocket science 101. Many of the
world's top launch facilities are
located along the equator. And no, dear
alchemists, it's not for some freaky
symbolic occult ritual. It's actually to
get an extra boost from the Earth's
natural rotation. If the Earth spins on
its axis and your rocket shoots off in
the same direction as that spin, it
takes some of that momentum with it on
its way up. To go against the Earth's
rotation and enter a backwards orbit is
much harder. As baffling as this mystery
object's backwards trajectory was, it
also may be a clue to possible intent.
Retrograde trajectories often show up in
polar orbits. In a polar orbit, the
satellite passes directly over the north
and south pole, making it the only orbit
capable of imaging the entire Earth's
surface as the planet turns below. In
other words, if these objects were
indeed from an alien civilization, they
would have been peering down from a
perfect vantage point to survey the
Earth. Some try to explain away
Jacques's orbital mystery sighting by
invoking the Corona program, a series of
highly secretive CIA sponsored
satellites first launched in 1960,
kicking off the modern era of orbital
espionage. The Corona satellites did
have a nearly polar orbit. However, it's
a very insufficient explanation as Valle
pointed out in a later interview. Later
I found out that other observatories had
made exactly the same observation and
that in fact American tracking stations
had photographed the same thing and
couldn't identify it either. It was as
bright as the star Sirius. You couldn't
miss it. It didn't reappear in
successive weeks. Sirius is the
brightest star in the night sky. So if
this was an espionage satellite, they
weren't doing a great job of hiding it.
Corona satellites were deliberately
built with less reflective materials
than others at the time, making it
extremely incompatible with the
exceptional brightness that Jacqu
reports. Jacques also mentioned that the
object did not reappear in successive
weeks. Also strange and inconsistent
with the corona satellite explanation.
What happened next would shock young
Jacques to his very core. His superior
at the observatory, Paul Mueller, got a
hold of the data. The next morning,
Mueller, who behaved like a petty army
officer, simply confiscated the tape and
destroyed it. Jacques would later
recount realizing that scientists were
human beings like the rest of us. When
their reputations were threatened, when
their ideas were challenged, they
reacted by eliminating the data. If the
data didn't fit their preconceived
notions, they just got rid of it. In
many ways, this was the inciting
incident which sent Jock on his lifelong
hero's journey to the furthest edges of
the unexplained. It also parallels the
heated response Beatatrice now faces
from many of her peers, and it shows
that her anomalous observations are in
good company. They don't exist in a
vacuum.
>> Do you feel like the world is ready to
accept this?
I think there is no such moment. It just
happens when it happens.
>> Yeah.
>> On the other hand, like you say, uh
sometimes some knowledge doesn't land
well because it came in the wrong
moments.
>> I don't know. But now we have all the
whistleblowers coming out or that they
came out and they gave really great
testimonies. All these people who
>> have talked about their experiences.
Many of them are really really like
really really intelligent, brilliant,
healthy in all ways.
>> Yes.
>> And it's like people who want like role
model people.
>> No, we're getting to I think a tipping
point even on my little YouTube show,
you know, it's like we've probably
broken maybe 15 16 of these people with
again the intersection of very credible
backgrounds. Green berets, air force
combat control recruits, national
geospatial agency, elder statesman
adviser to the president in the case of
Harold Malgrren. You have all these
people saying the same thing. I just
interviewed a a a chief uh of aerospace
medicine, you know, one of the top
doctors. He was attached to NASA. He was
at the the Air Force. He was a senior
doctor there. Uh and he saw something.
Uh so it's like uh it's we're getting to
a tipping point I think where it's like
okay one thing is a campfire story but
like you know hundred like what how do
you explain that away? I mean it starts
to get really interesting.
>> I mean if I look at everything that I
learned in the last years I I will be
fair. I don't think we are alone. I
think we have company.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's my impression. I'm hopelessly
curious and I cannot
I cannot stop once I I mean once you see
these kind of results it's not like you
>> can just give up and say no no no I you
know
>> no
>> uh I should go and do some classical
astronomy to support my living you just
can't it's also like something you
become dependent on
>> trying to satisfy that curiosity ask any
question you have to know
>> I think it's just going to take time for
this to get out there I think when
people actually see this published
and read it. Uh if they think about it,
I think they're going to be very
intrigued by this. So, it's going to be
interesting to see what, if anything,
this changes in terms of the way people
think about science of UAP. But I know
there are many other interesting
scientific projects going on in the UAP
area. And I think in the next, you know,
five or 10 years, it's going to be night
and day from what it has been in the
past. And we're going to start seeing a
lot more peer-reviewed studies uh
assuming journals are willing to take
them. That's always the concern is
because of the topic a lot of journals
don't even want to touch it.
We've spent most of this episode
examining the data, but with results
that so thoroughly challenge our
existing modalities and worldviews, it's
worth stepping back and trying to grasp
at a bigger picture. So, what does all
of this mean and what are the deeper
implications? As with any cosmic shift
in perspective, Carl Sean's pale blue
dot comes to mind.
>> Our imagined self-importance, the
delusion that we have some privileged
position [music] in the universe are
challenged.
>> But what does this all mean? If our pale
blue dot is being intently studied by
other little pale dots, pale dots that
fully surround it, what new meanings do
Sean's words carry if we're actually not
a lonely and obscure speck, but instead
so enveloped in cosmic company that tens
of thousands of alien satellites were
studying our planet before we could even
launch one of our own. I can't answer
that in this video, but maybe trying to
contemplate those questions is a next
step in our collective evolution. And if
you ever do find yourself staring up and
watching a starry night sky, just ask
yourself who or what might be staring
back. I want to thank Dr. Beatatric
Vioale for her time and for sharing her
remarkable findings. I also want to
thank Dr. Steven Brule. Until next time,
I'm Jesse Michaels and this is American
Alchemy.
Alchemist. Did you enjoy that? Well,
here's the thing. That episode was just
the tip of the iceberg. If you want the
full picture, head over to the American
Alchemy Magazine we just launched on
Substack. That's where we deep dive into
all sorts of crazy topics that we don't
have time to fit into every video with
weekly articles exploring all of the
strange, forgotten, and conspiratorial
corners of space, history, and high
weirdness. So join up today at our free
or paid tiers on Substack. I am
including the full link in the
description of this video.